>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're gonna check out our next divide and
conquer sorting algorithm.
It's called quick sort, it's one of the
more famous sorting algorithms out there.
You guys ready, ready to jump in?
So just a reminder, when we say divide and
conquer we have aA few basic steps.
The first one,
we have to always find our base case.
2, we're gonna break our
problem down during each loop.
Conquer, do the work.
And 3, combine.
So with quick sort, or with merge sort,
all of the work is happening
on the combination piece.
With quick sort we actually
skip the combination part
because we're doing an in place operation.
And all of the action happens on
the partition, which is the splitting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so in essence,
what we're doing with a quick sort
is we're choosing a pivot point and
with everything,
usually it's either the first one or
the last one, the last element in array,
we choose that.
Here, let me have my picture for you.
We choose our pivot point.
So here we're choosing 4,
which is the end of our array.
And we're going to swap out all of
the elements that are larger to the right.
And all of them that are less
are gonna be to the left.
And so what happens when we loop
through here and we swap them,
4 is gonna be in its final place
where it's supposed to be, right?
Does that make sense?
So as we move all of the higher ones.
So 7 would go there, then 5, 9,
and 8, and then 5, right?
The very last one.
Then 4 is gonna be here, and
that's its final position in the array.
You see that?
Even though everything else is
out of order, the pivot point
is now the partition,
which is its final point.
So that's sorted.
Wherever it winds up is
the sorted part of the array.
In the bigger array, right?
We're not sorted arrays of size one.
We're talking about it has found
its final place in the big array.
And all this is taking place in place.
Unlike merge sort where we are creating
new arrays and then merging them together.
Does that make sense?
Cool, so
once we find the final place for our 4,
we are then gonna recursively partition
the right side and the left side.
So just like we did with the 4, we're
going to choose maybe on the left side
the last one, and then we're gonna
swap it until it has its final place.
Same thing on the right, we have quite a
few more here, so a little few more steps.
So 7, we get 7 into its final place,
we split it,
we split it again to the partition.
And then it's all in its final place,
cuz again, we're all doing this in place.
So we don't have to merge it or
combine it,
that's why there's no combination step.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does that make
sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Brains exploding
a little bit?
Quick sort's kind of a crazy one.